The attack happened in the city of Quetta, some 65km (40 miles) from the border with Afghanistan.
More than a dozen people were also wounded after gunmen wearing explosive vests tried to enter the building.
The two attackers were intercepted at the entrance, the region's home minister, Sarfaraz Bugti, said on Twitter.
Had the men not been stopped there could have been hundreds of casualties, he added.
Security forces are conducting a search operation and have surrounded the site of the attack, in the city's high-security zone, local Urdu-language TV channels report.
A spokesman for the foreign affairs ministry, Dr Mohammed Faisal, condemned the attack.
Attacks in the mainly Sunni Muslim region are not uncommon, often targeting the Hazara Shia Muslim community in suicide bombings.
But Pakistan's Christian minority has also frequently been the subject of militant attacks, and guards had been placed near the church in Quetta as a result.
The Balochistan province is home to unrest from several groups with religious or separatist groups, some of which cross the border from nearby Afghanistan.
A man has been arrested in Sydney for allegedly acting as an economic agent for North Korea, Australian Federal Police (AFP) have said.
Chan Han Choi, 59, has been charged with brokering illegal exports from the country and discussing the supply of weapons of mass destruction.
Police allege he has broken both UN and Australian sanctions.
The case against the suspect, who has lived in Australia for more than 30 years, is a first for the country.
Never before has someone been charged under the country's 1995 Weapons of Mass Destruction (Prevention of Proliferation) Act.
Police say there was evidence that Chan Han Choi had been in contact with "high ranking officials in North Korea".
North Korea crisis in 300 words
Nine charts that tell you all you need to know about North Korea
They allege he had brokered services related to North Korea's weapons programme, including the sale of specialist services including ballistic missile technology to foreign entities, in order to generate income for the North Korean regime.
Chan Han Choi also was charged with brokering the sale of coal from North Korea to groups in Indonesia and Vietnam. He is facing six charges in total after being arrested at his home on Saturday night.
In a Sunday news conference, police confirmed the man was a naturalised Australian citizen of Korean origin who had been in the country for over 30 years.
They described him as a "loyal agent" who "believed he was acting to serve some higher patriotic purpose".
But police insisted the man's actions did not pose any "direct risk" to Australians, with the actions occurring offshore.
I know these charges sound alarming. Let me be clear we are not suggesting there are any weapons or missile component that ever came to Australian soil," AFP Assistant Commissioner Neil Gaughan said.
Any individual who attempts to fly in the face of sanctions cannot and will not go unnoticed in Australia.
The suspect could face up to 10 years in prison and has been denied bail.
In October the Australian government said they had received a letter from North Korea urging Canberra to distance itself from the Trump administration.
Pyongyang had previously warned that Australia would "not be able to avoid a disaster" if it followed US policies towards Kim Jong-un's regime.
The North Korean stand-off is a crisis that, at worst, threatens nuclear war, but it's complicated. Let's take a step back.
Why does North Korea want nuclear weapons?
The Korean peninsula was divided after World War Two and the communist North developed into a Stalinesque dictatorship.
Almost entirely isolated on the global stage, its leaders say nuclear capabilities are its only deterrent against an outside world seeking to destroy it.
How close are they?
North Korea claims it has successfully tested a hydrogen bomb - many times more powerful than an atomic bomb - that can be miniaturised and loaded on a long-range missile.
State media called the test "a perfect success", and although analysts said the claims should be treated with caution, leaked information suggests US intelligence officials do believe North Korea is capable of miniaturisation.
Pyongyang views the US as its main adversary but also has rockets aimed at South Korea and Japan, where thousands of US troops are based.
What has been done to stop them?
Attempts to negotiate aid-for-disarmament deals have repeatedly failed.
The UN has implemented increasingly tough sanctions - to little effect. China, the North's only real ally, has also put economic and diplomatic pressure on the North.
The US has now threatened military force.
Is it for real this time?
The crisis has been brewing for years, but is at a new level now.
The US is within reach of a strike now, which coupled with the miniaturisation is a game changer. And over the summer, North Korea has grown increasingly provocative, threatening the US Pacific territory of Guam and Japan.
The US responded to the latest test by saying its patience is "not unlimited" and it was ready to respond militarily.
Never has the rhetoric exchanged been more incendiary and personal, and experts are increasingly alarmed.
The device is assumed to have used plutonium, sourced from the North's nuclear facility at Yongbyon.
International observers estimated the blast had an energy discharge of about a kilotonne, less than a tenth of the size of the bomb dropped on Hiroshima in 1945.
Many believed this indicated a nuclear "fizzle" rather than a fully effective blast.
But the North said it had joined the nuclear club, and that its bomb would contribute to peace and stability on the Korean peninsula.
25 May 2009 - attempt to prove stability
The second test was bigger, with an estimated yield of between two and eight kilotonnes.
North Korea said it had achieved a "higher level in terms of its explosive power and technology".
While the international consensus was that a nuclear test had happened, no radiation was detected. The ability to contain a nuclear test would in itself be a big advance for the North.
It also followed hard on the heels of a rocket launch which put a satellite in space, but which was seen as a cover for a missile test.
Both were seen as an attempt by ailing leader Kim Jong-il to prove the North's nuclear capacity before he died.
12 February 2013 - uranium-enrichment?
In the early hours of 12 February 2013, unusual seismic activity was again detected around Punggye-ri.
The North said it had tested "a miniaturised and lighter nuclear device with greater explosive force than previously".
The reference to "miniaturised" stoked fears that Pyongyang was closer to producing a device small enough to fit on a long-range missile.
Speculation was rife that the test involved a uranium device, though this has never been confirmed beyond doubt.
A successful uranium test would mark a significant leap forward in North Korea's nuclear programme. The North's plutonium stocks are finite, but if it could enrich uranium it could build up a nuclear stockpile.
Plutonium enrichment also has to happen in large, easy-to-spot facilities, whereas uranium enrichment can more easily be carried out in secrecy.
6 January 2016 - thermonuclear claim
The first indication was again a report of an "artificial quake" in North Korea, registering about magnitude 5.1, close to Punggye-ri.
North Korea later announced it had conducted its first successful test of a hydrogen bomb.
H-bombs, also known as thermonuclear warheads, are massively more powerful than atomic bombs, using fusion - the merging of atoms - rather than fission to unleash enormous amounts of energy.
Though again it has never been confirmed, that claim alarmed the international community.
Observations from afar suggested the blast detected was not large enough to have been a full thermonuclear device, but may have involved some nuclear fusion.
Again, North Korea said the device had been miniaturised.
A few months later, on 9 March, Kim Jong-un announced that North Korea scientists had been able to do what had long been feared, and make a nuclear warhead small enough to fit on a warhead.
It came after days of threats to carry out "indiscriminate" attacks on the US and South Korea. But analysts at the time said it was impossible to confirm.
9 September 2016 - a major advance
North Korea announced its fifth nuclear test in 2016 in September.
Estimates of the explosive yield have varied. South Korea's military said it was about 10 kilotonnes but other experts say initial indications suggest 20 kilotons or more.
The bomb dropped by the US on Hiroshima in 1945 had a yield of about 15 kilotonnes.
Nearly a year later, on 8 August 2017, information leaked to the Washington Post indicated US intelligence officials believe North Korea's claim that it has the technology to fit its missiles with nuclear warheads.
The new assessment comes only weeks after North Korea tested what intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBM), it says were capable of reaching the US mainland.
3 September 2017 - 'the biggest yet'
North Korea claimed it has successfully tested what the world has worried about - a miniaturised hydrogen bomb that could be loaded on to a long-range missile.
Seismic readings of 6.3 indicated the test was bigger than any other that has been conducted.
Some early estimates said that the test came in at about 100-150 kilotonnes, potentially 10 times larger than last time.
North Korean state media called it a "perfect success" and a "very meaningful step in completing the national nuclear weapons programme".
Concerns are mounting for a Chinese artist who has been taken into police custody after posting videos and messages critical of the Communist Party.
Hua Yong's last act was to record a video for his two-year-old daughter because he would not be with her on her next birthday.
The video has now been widely shared on the internet.
It was a desperate final message from the painter, well-known in Beijing.
As he speaks, Chinese police attempt to break down his door to take him away.
His alleged crime: filming protests against forced evictions from some of Beijing's poorest neighbours, part of an unpopular city remodelling plan.
Beijing's unique street life under constant siege
Mass evictions as Beijing is spruced up
The artist protesters in a polluted city on edge
Everything I did was for you," he tells his daughter in the video, "so you wouldn't have to suffer like your father and grandfather's generations. I am willing to use my life to defend the rights of citizens to speak freely, for the rights of citizens to be people."
Hua Yong's videos documenting the evictions, and online messages calling for individual rights, led to police threats.
Fearing arrest, he fled the capital but was tracked down by the authorities, who have little tolerance for political activism.
As officers raided the building in which he was hiding, Hua Yong made and posted his last emotional video - urging his child to learn English with her Mum.
One day, he said, he would take her around the world. So far, the video has been viewed by tens of thousands of people.
Janet Jackson plays the last date of her State of the World tour in Atlanta this Sunday.
Staged less than a year after the birth to her first child, its a powerful return - condemning domestic terrorism, white supremacy and police brutality with a sense of urgency and alarm.
The political nature of the production is supported by the musical choices, which highlight socially-conscious album tracks like The Knowledge and What About alongside Jackson's 28 top 10 hits.
It's earned the star some of the best reviews of her career, and rekindled many fans' enthusiasm. Among them is Christine Cardona, who reflects here on her relationship with the singer.
presentational grey line
I recently found myself with a lapful of beignets, giddy with a childish excitement, in the backseat of a rental car. A few hours earlier, I'd flown from my home in New York to New Orleans, collected a friend in each airport, and started the two-hour drive to Lafayette for the opening night of Janet Jackson's State of the World Tour.
As our "Ultimate Janet" playlist pumped through the speakers, I had flashbacks to the many drives, and the countless buses, trains and planes I'd boarded for a glimpse of Janet Jackson. I tried to remember how it all began.
